DOCS-929 Data Migration Service Rebranched (#6051)
EnterpriseDB/docs: advocacy_docs/edb-postgres-ai/migration-etl/data-migration-service/getting_started/preparing_db/preparing_postgres_source_databases.mdx

1. [Create a logical replication slot](#create-a-logical-replication-slot)

### Verify Postgres configuration

Verify or set these configuration entries for Postgres.

1. Ensure `wal_level` is configured as `logical`.

    The CDC migration process leverages Postgres logical decoding. Setting `wal_level` to `logical` enables logical decoding of the Postgres write-ahead log (WAL).

2. Ensure `max_wal_senders` is configured appropriately.

    If EDB Data Migration Service migration is the first streaming client for your database, set `max_wal_senders` to at least `1`. Other streaming clients might be present. Consult your DBA for the appropriate value for streaming client connectivity.

3. Ensure `max_replication_slots` is configured appropriately.

    `max_replication_slots` must be at least `1` for the CDC migration process. This value can be higher if your organization uses Postgres replication.

    See the [Postgres replication documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/runtime-config-replication.html) for more information.

4. Ensure `max_wal_size` is configured for adequate WAL LSN lifetime.

>     Set the `max_wal_size` value large enough that production traffic is generating mostly timed checkpoints and not requested checkpoints based on WAL size.

Reviewer: @mlewandowski-edb @ksnavely I don't have a strong opinion about this.

Based on this article(https://www.enterprisedb.com/blog/tuning-maxwalsize-postgresql) looks like there is not a unique value for max_wal_size, it depends on each customer and how they are using it.

We add this check as part of this ticket: https://enterprisedb.atlassian.net/browse/ET-333

>     Set the `max_wal_size` value large enough that production traffic is generating mostly timed checkpoints and not requested checkpoints based on WAL size.

Reviewer 2: Ok. 
@gvasquezvargas For now, let's not worry about changing anything in the documentation related to `max_wal_size'.

@jperozoa I think the real issue is that the config validation script indicates a failure if the value isn't set to > 8 GB. We should revisit the config validation script. Even if we want to recommend > 8 GB in most production use cases, we may want to flag that as a warning instead of a failure or at least provide some additional info why it failed validation.

### Grant `SELECT` on source tables to the CDC migration role

The new `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` needs `SELECT` access to source tables. You can grant access across a schema
or for each table.

For an entire schema's tables, use this command:

```sql
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> GRANT SELECT ON TABLES to <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

For each table, use:

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON <TABLE_NAME> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

Where:
 - `<DB_SCHEMA>` is the database schema name for the tables to migrate.
 - `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` is the name of the Postgres role or user to use for CDC migration database access.
 - `<TABLE_NAME>` is the name of a table to migrate.

### Create a logical replication slot

The CDC migration process for Postgres sources leverages logical decoding and the publication/subscription mechanism. To use Postgres as a source, you need to create a replication slot for your CDC migration role:

```sql
SELECT pg_create_logical_replication_slot('<MIGRATION_ROLE>',  'pgoutput');
```

Where:
 - `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` is the name of the Postgres role or user to use for CDC migration database access.
 - `pgoutput` is the logical decoding plugin supplied by Postgres that EDB DMS uses.

> 

Reviewer 3: done.

> ## SSL configuration

Reviewer: we require SSL, without it, reader will not be able to connect -- ref: https://github.com/EnterpriseDB/transporter-reader/blob/ca518f134d28cf2e65b2ed7c7d08ad93464afe54/src/main/java/com/enterprisedb/cdcreader/db/PostgresDialect.java#L135

Ensure you configure your source database server to [accept SSL connections](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ssl-tcp.html) to allow the EDB DMS Reader to connect to it. You must create a server certificate and a server private key, for example, with OpenSSL, to enable this configuration.

> 

Reviewer 3: @mlewandowski-edb 

1. You are suggesting another section after the SSL section the purpose of which is to remind the reader to run the config validation script? Is it still worth reminding them of the step after they have already verified the Postgres config parameters mentioned, created roles and granted accesses, created a logical replication slot, and configured SSL connections?
2. Could you say more about the example you were envisioning? I am not sure if I am quite following the suggestion. I am aware that you can get a failed check on max_wal_size even though sizes <8GB can be sufficient for migrations (as per your reports above). Are you suggesting that we set up a source database with less than 8GB max_wal_size so we can capture the output when running the config validation script and include this with the example to give folks a heads up? The idea being that it is a little surprising you have to set max_wal_size so high?

> 

Reviewer 2: 1. They actually haven't verified the configuration yet. the first command related to running the postgresConfigValidation.sh script returns results that look like this:
```
PG_USERNAME:            A PostgreSQL user with admin privileges.
PG_PASSWORD:            The password for the admin user.
PG_HOST:                The hostname or IP address of the PostgreSQL DB.
PG_PORT:                The port of the PostgreSQL DB.
DB_NAME:                The PostgreSQL database name.
DBZ_USERNAME:           A postgreSQL user used for migration (default: debezium).
DBZ_PASSWORD:           The password for the migration user.

Example:
Step 1: Create an array contains name of all tables need to be migrated in schema_name.table_name format.
arr=(test1.table1 test1.table2 test1.table3 test1.table4)

Step 2: Run this script with necessary parameters.
PG_USERNAME=postgres PG_PASSWORD=transporter PG_HOST=localhost PG_PORT=5432 DB_NAME=postgres DBZ_USERNAME=debezium DBZ_PASSWORD=dbz ./postgresConfigValidation.sh "${arr[@]}"

```
Basically, the above tells them what to run once they've finished all the configuration.

2. For now, let's not worry about this. We can address this in a follow-up documentation update.

That said, here is an example of the results of running the configuration validation script:
```
[root@b351ddcc04e5 cdcreader]# arr=(public.\"Album\" public.\"Artist\" public.\"Customer\" public.\"Employee\" public.\"Genre\" public.\"Invoice\" public.\"InvoiceLine\" public.\"MediaType\" public.\"Playlist\" public.\"PlaylistTrack\" public.\"Track\")
[root@b351ddcc04e5 cdcreader]# 
[root@b351ddcc04e5 cdcreader]# PG_USERNAME=postgres PG_PASSWORD=postgres PG_HOST=172.17.0.4 PG_PORT=5432 DB_NAME=Chinook DBZ_USERNAME=miguser DBZ_PASSWORD=miguser ./postgresConfigValidation.sh "${arr[@]}"

 *** [Transporter] - Validate WAL Level
wal_level:  logical
[Pass] wal_level is 'logical'.

 *** [Transporter] - Validate max WAL senders
max_wal_senders: 10
[Pass] max_wal_senders is at least 1.

 *** [Transporter] - Validate max replication slots
max_replication_slots: 10
[Pass] max_replication_slots is at least 1.

 *** [Transporter] - Validate max WAL size
max_wal_size: 1 GB
[Fail] max_wal_size (1 GB) is less than 8 GB

 *** [Transporter] - Validate checkpoints
checkpoints_timed: 378
checkpoints_req: 3
[Pass] Timed checkpoints are more frequent than requested checkpoints.

 *** [Transporter] - Check miguser user role
[Pass] User 'miguser' is present
[Pass] User 'miguser' has replication permission

 *** [Transporter] - Check SELECT privilege on the tables to be migrated
[Pass] User miguser has select privilege on all tables to be migrated.

 *** [Transporter] - Check presence of a replication slot
[Pass] Replication slot 'miguser' is present
[root@b351ddcc04e5 cdcreader]# 

```

> 

Reviewer 3: 1. We should probably rename that first step from 'Verify Postgres configuration' if they aren't actually verifying yet. Maybe we call it 'Set Postgres configuration' and leave the word verify out of it until we are at the validation step.

### Grant usage of the source schemas to the CDC migration role

To select tables in a schema, the user must grant usage on the schema in addition to granting `SELECT` on the tables of the schema. This is necessary for all source schemas containing tables to be migrated.

You can grant usage on a schema using the following command:

```sql
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>;
```

### Grant `SELECT` on source tables to the CDC migration role

The new `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` now has schema access, but still needs `SELECT` access to the source tables of those schemas. You can grant access across a schema
or for each table.

For an entire schema's tables, use this command:

```sql
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> GRANT SELECT ON TABLES to <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

For each table, use:

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON <TABLE_NAME> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

Where:
 - `<DB_SCHEMA>` is the database schema name for the tables to migrate.
 - `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` is the name of the Postgres role or user to use for CDC migration database access.
 - `<TABLE_NAME>` is the name of a table to migrate.

### Grant `CREATE` privileges on the source database to the CDC migration role

> Since the `pgoutput` plugin is being used, the migration user needs to be granted `CREATE` priveleges on the source database in order for Debezium to be able to create publications. The 'CREATE' privelege can be granted using the following command:

Reviewer 2: Should 'CREATE' in the following sentence be stylized as a keyword (i.e., `CREATE`) like the other occurrences:
> The 'CREATE' privelege can be granted using the following command:

1. First, create an array that contains the name of all the tables that need to be migrated in <schema_name>.<table_name> format. In this example:

```bash
arr=(test1.table1 test1.table2 test1.table3 test1.table4)
```

2. Next, run the script with the necessary parameters. In this example:

```bash
PG_USERNAME=postgres PG_PASSWORD=password PG_HOST=localhost PG_PORT=5432 DB_NAME=postgres DBZ_USERNAME=debezium DBZ_PASSWORD=dbz ./postgresConfigValidation.sh "${arr[@]}"
```

You should get a response similar to the following:

```
 *** [Transporter] - Validate WAL Level
wal_level:  logical
[Pass] wal_level is 'logical'.

 *** [Transporter] - Validate max WAL senders
max_wal_senders: 10
[Pass] max_wal_senders is at least 1.

 *** [Transporter] - Validate max replication slots
max_replication_slots: 10
[Pass] max_replication_slots is at least 1.

 *** [Transporter] - Validate max WAL size
max_wal_size: 1 GB
[Fail] max_wal_size (1 GB) is less than 8 GB

 *** [Transporter] - Validate checkpoints
checkpoints_timed: 378
checkpoints_req: 3
[Pass] Timed checkpoints are more frequent than requested checkpoints.

 *** [Transporter] - Check miguser user role

> [Pass] User 'miguser' is present

Reviewer 2: The user name here doesn't match the  command, presumably because the command values were copied from a different source that the output that was provided for this context.

Change from:
> [Pass] User 'miguser' is present

to:
> [Pass] User 'debezium' is present

> [Pass] User 'miguser' has replication permission

Reviewer 2: The user name here doesn't match the  command, presumably because the command values were copied from a different source that the output that was provided for this context.

Change from:
> [Pass] User 'miguser' has replication permission

to:
> [Pass] User 'debezium' has replication permission

 *** [Transporter] - Check SELECT privilege on the tables to be migrated

> [Pass] User miguser has select privilege on all tables to be migrated.

Reviewer 2: The user name here doesn't match the command, presumably because the command values were copied from a different source that the output that was provided for this context.

Change from:

[Pass] User miguser has select privilege on all tables to be migrated.

to:

> [Pass] User debezium has select privilege on all tables to be migrated.

 *** [Transporter] - Check presence of a replication slot

> [Pass] Replication slot 'miguser' is present

Reviewer 2: Since we removed the step for creating the replication slot, which was the correct thing to do, the configuration validation script will now fail this check - this needs to be corrected in a future version of the validation script. In the meantime, I think we should show the failure in the example and include a note about it later with the other note about the `max_wal_size` parameter. Also, like some of the previous lines in the example command output, the user name here doesn't match the command.

So, change this line from:
> [Pass] Replication slot 'miguser' is not present

to:
> [Fail] Replication slot 'debezium' is not present

```

!!! Note 

> In the above example output, note that the `max_wal_size` check failed. Despite this, the migration was able to be run successfully without any issues. Therefore, although this check might fail, a lower setting may actually be sufficient in certain use cases depending on the workload on the source database.

Reviewer 2: Add the following text to this note to account for the replication slot failure:

> The failure message related to the replication slot can be ignored. This is an old check that is no longer needed as the cdc-reader software automatically creates and manages the needed replication slot. The check will be removed in a future version of the postgresConfigValidation.shscript.

### Grant usage of the source schemas to the CDC migration role

To select tables in a schema, the user must grant usage on the schema in addition to granting `SELECT` on the tables of the schema. This is necessary for all source schemas containing tables to be migrated.

You can grant usage on a schema using the following command:

```sql
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>;
```

### Grant `SELECT` on source tables to the CDC migration role

The new `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` now has schema access, but still needs `SELECT` access to the source tables of those schemas. You can grant access across a schema
or for each table.

For an entire schema's tables, use this command:

```sql
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> GRANT SELECT ON TABLES to <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

For each table, use:

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON <TABLE_NAME> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

Where:
 - `<DB_SCHEMA>` is the database schema name for the tables to migrate.
 - `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` is the name of the Postgres role or user to use for CDC migration database access.
 - `<TABLE_NAME>` is the name of a table to migrate.

### Grant `CREATE` privileges on the source database to the CDC migration role

> Since the `pgoutput` plugin is being used, the migration user needs to be granted `CREATE` priveleges on the source database in order for Debezium to be able to create publications. The `CREATE` privelege can be granted using the following command:

Reviewer 2: "privilege" is misspelled twice in these two sentences.

Change "privelege" to "privilege"

### Grant usage of the source schemas to the CDC migration role

To select tables in a schema, the user must grant usage on the schema in addition to granting `SELECT` on the tables of the schema. This is necessary for all source schemas containing tables to be migrated.

You can grant usage on a schema using the following command:

```sql
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>;
```

### Grant `SELECT` on source tables to the CDC migration role

The new `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` now has schema access, but still needs `SELECT` access to the source tables of those schemas. You can grant access across a schema
or for each table.

For an entire schema's tables, use this command:

```sql
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA <DB_SCHEMA> GRANT SELECT ON TABLES to <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

For each table, use:

```sql
GRANT SELECT ON <TABLE_NAME> TO <MIGRATION_ROLE>
```

Where:
 - `<DB_SCHEMA>` is the database schema name for the tables to migrate.
 - `<MIGRATION_ROLE>` is the name of the Postgres role or user to use for CDC migration database access.
 - `<TABLE_NAME>` is the name of a table to migrate.

> ### Create a logical replication slot

Reviewer: we don't need to, reader will do

> ### Create a logical replication slot

Reviewer 2: @gvasquezvargas please remove the **Create a logical replication** slot from the documentation then

checkpoints_req: 3
[Pass] Timed checkpoints are more frequent than requested checkpoints.

 *** [Transporter] - Check debezium user role
[Pass] User 'debezium' is present
[Pass] User 'debezium' has replication permission

 *** [Transporter] - Check SELECT privilege on the tables to be migrated
[Pass] User debezium has select privilege on all tables to be migrated.

 *** [Transporter] - Check presence of a replication slot
[Fail] Replication slot 'debezium' is not present

```

!!! Note 
In the previous example, the `max_wal_size` check failed, but the migration ran without any issues. Therefore, although this check might fail, a lower setting may be sufficient in certain use cases depending on the workload on the source database.

> Additionally, you can ignore the failure message related to the replication slot. This is an outdated check that is no longer required as the EDB DMS Reader automatically creates and manages the required replication slot. The check will be removed in a future version of the `postgresConfigValidationsh` script.

Reviewer 4: Replace `postgresConfigValidationsh` with `postgresConfigValidation.sh`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can ignore the failure message related to the replication slot. This is an outdated check that is no longer required as the EDB DMS Reader automatically creates and manages the required replication slot. The check will be removed in a future version of the `postgresConfigValidation.sh` script.
```
